# BIOMD0000000405: Cookson2011_EnzymaticQueueingCoupling

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000405.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000405.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
** Queueing up for enzymatic processing: correlated signaling through coupled degradation. **   
Natalie A Cookson, William H Mather, Tal Danino, Octavio Mondragón-Palomino,
Ruth J Williams, Lev S Tsimring, & Jeff Hasty _Molecular Systems Biology_2011;
7:561; DOI:[10.1038/msb.2011.94](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2011.94)  
**Abstract:**   
High-throughput technologies have led to the generation of complex wiring
diagrams as a post-sequencing paradigm for depicting the interactions between
vast and diverse cellular species. While these diagrams are useful for
analyzing biological systems on a large scale, a detailed understanding of the
molecular mechanisms that underlie the observed network connections is
critical for the further development of systems and synthetic biology. Here,
we use queueing theory to investigate how ‘waiting lines’ can lead to
correlations between protein ‘customers’ that are coupled solely through a
downstream set of enzymatic ‘servers’. Using the E. coli ClpXP degradation
machine as a model processing system, we observe significant cross-talk
between two networks that are indirectly coupled through a common set of
processors. We further illustrate the implications of enzymatic queueing using
a synthetic biology application, in which two independent synthetic networks
demonstrate synchronized behavior when common ClpXP machinery is overburdened.
Our results demonstrate that such post-translational processes can lead to
dynamic connections in cellular networks and may provide a mechanistic
understanding of existing but currently inexplicable links.

**Note:**   
Individual stochastic trajectories for a queueing system in three different
conditions, 1) Underloaded, 2) Balanced and 3) Overloaded, demonstrate
correlation resonance. The parameter values in this model correspond to the
Balanced Condition.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


